docs-gen/docs/get-started/basic-authentication.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Basic authentication

Access the plugin options using and in the `Connection` section configure the `host` and `authentication`.

## Host
In case of Atlassian Jira Server or Jira Cloud, the host is the base URL of your Jira instance.

[Read more...](/docs/configuration/authentication#host)

## Authentication Types

The authentication type depends on the type of Jira you use:

- `Open`: guest mode for open source projects
- `Basic Authentication`: for Jira Server and Jira Cloud

[Read more...](/docs/configuration/authentication#authentication-types)

### Username and password

If you choose `Basic Authentication`, you need to provide the username and password to authenticate with the server.

- **Jira Server**: Use your regular username and password.
- **Jira Cloud**: Use your **email address** as the username, and an **API token** as the password. Note: Jira Cloud does **not** accept your regular password for API access.

To create a new API token in Jira Cloud, navigate to `Account Settings > Security > Create and manage API tokens`. You can find more details here: [Official Documentation](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/).

[Read more...](/docs/configuration/authentication#username-and-password)

Commit message:

making it even more clear that the connection works but incorrect

docs-gen/docs/get-started/basic-authentication.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
---
# Basic authentication

Access the plugin options using and in the `Connection` section configure the `host` and `authentication`.

## Host
In case of Atlassian Jira Server or Jira Cloud, the host is the base URL of your Jira instance.

[Read more...](/docs/configuration/authentication#host)

## Authentication Types

The authentication type depends on the type of Jira you use:

- `Open`: guest mode for open source projects
- `Basic Authentication`: for Jira Server and Jira Cloud

[Read more...](/docs/configuration/authentication#authentication-types)

### Username and password

If you choose `Basic Authentication`, you need to provide the username and password to authenticate with the server.

- **Jira Server**: Use your regular username and password.
- **Jira Cloud**: Use your **email address** as the username, and an **API token** as the password. Note: Jira Cloud does **not** accept your regular password for API access. If you use your regular password instead of an API token, the connection may appear to work, but it will not return data as expected.

To create a new API token in Jira Cloud, navigate to `Account Settings > Security > Create and manage API tokens`. You can find more details here: [Official Documentation](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/).

[Read more...](/docs/configuration/authentication#username-and-password)
